Dev (#131)
cyw0ng95/sqlvibe: docs/plan-v0.11.5.md

# sqlvibe v0.11.5 Development Plan

**Version**: 0.11.5  
**Date**: 2026-03-06  
**Focus**: Complete C++ Performance Optimization  

---

## Overview

> v0.11.5 completes ALL performance optimizations in a single release. Building on v0.11.4 baseline benchmarks, this plan executes 8 parallel workstreams covering JOIN engine, COUNT(*) optimization, VM dispatch, memory system, SIMD, query processing, code generation, and transaction management.

Reviewer: > [!TIP]
> **💡** 工作流数量描述前后不一致
> 
> 概览中写“8 parallel workstreams”，但正文实际包含 Workstream 1 至 Workstream 9。该不一致会影响项目排期沟通和任务分工理解。
> 
> **建议**: 统一数量描述：要么改为 9 个工作流，要么将 Build/Infrastructure 并入已有工作流并保持 8 个。
> 
```suggestion
v0.11.5 completes ALL performance optimizations in a single release. Building on v0.11.4 baseline benchmarks, this plan executes 9 parallel workstreams covering JOIN engine, COUNT(*) optimization, VM dispatch, memory system, SIMD, query processing, code generation, transaction management, and build infrastructure.
```

    }
};
```

### Files Modified
- src/core/DS/arena_v2.cpp
- src/core/DS/arena_v2.h
- src/core/SC/database.cpp (unique_ptr)
- src/core/VM/engine/engine.cpp

### Expected Impact
- 40% reduction in Go GC pressure

---

## Workstream 7: SIMD Library (P1)

### Tasks

| # | Task | Difficulty | Dependency |
|---|------|------------|------------|
| 7.1 | SIMD batch compare (int64, float64) | MEDIUM | - |
| 7.2 | SIMD aggregate (SUM, COUNT, AVG) | MEDIUM | - |
| 7.3 | SIMD hash probe | HIGH | WS1 |
| 7.4 | SIMD string comparison | MEDIUM | - |
| 7.5 | SIMD bitmap operations | MEDIUM | WS5 |
| 7.6 | CRC32/xxHash SIMD | MEDIUM | WS1 |

### Implementation

```cpp
// src/core/DS/simd.cpp - Already partially implemented, extend

void svdb_batch_compare_int64_simd(const int64_t* a, const int64_t* b,
                                    int8_t* results, size_t n) {
#ifdef __AVX2__
    for (size_t i = 0; i + 4 <= n; i += 4) {
        __m256i va = _mm256_loadu_si256((const __m256i*)&a[i]);
        __m256i vb = _mm256_loadu_si256((const __m256i*)&b[i]);
        __m256i cmp = _mm256_cmpgt_epi64(va, vb);
        _mm256_storeu_si256((__m256i*)&results[i], cmp);
    }
#endif
}

> void svdb_batch_sum_int64_simd(const int64_t* values, int64_t* result, size_t n) sum with reduction
> }
> ```
> 
> ### Files Modified
> - src {
>     // Horizontal/core/DS/simd.cpp

Reviewer: > [!WARNING]
> **⚠️** SIMD 示例代码与文件列表出现损坏文本
> 
> Workstream 7 的代码块中存在语法损坏文本：`void svdb_batch_sum_int64_simd... ) sum with reduction`，且“Files Modified”第一项被写坏为 `- src { // Horizontal/core/DS/simd.cpp`。这会导致文档不可读，并降低该计划文档作为执行依据的可靠性。
> 
> **建议**: 修复该段代码示例为完整函数声明/实现，并将文件列表恢复为合法路径格式。
> 
```suggestion
void svdb_batch_sum_int64_simd(const int64_t* values, int64_t* result, size_t n) {
#ifdef __AVX2__
    __m256i acc = _mm256_setzero_si256();
    size_t i = 0;
    for (; i + 4 <= n; i += 4) {
        __m256i v = _mm256_loadu_si256((const __m256i*)&values[i]);
        acc = _mm256_add_epi64(acc, v);
    }
    alignas(32) int64_t tmp[4];
    _mm256_store_si256((__m256i*)tmp, acc);
    *result = tmp[0] + tmp[1] + tmp[2] + tmp[3];
    for (; i < n; i++) *result += values[i];
#else
    *result = 0;
    for (size_t i = 0; i < n; i++) *result += values[i];
#endif
}
```

### Files Modified
- src/core/DS/simd.cpp
```
